in this video,
we'll look at how we can use in a rape formula to perform a look up operation using
multiple criteria.
Let's open up 03 using Can Captain ation in a rate for Mueller's.
So this is an example that we've seen in previous videos.
We have a list of sales transactions,
and we want to find out the unit cost for every road.
But in order to do so,
we needed to use to cry interior the purchase ideas not sufficient,
because when we look in the purchases data,
every item that was purchased is listed on a separate road.
So to find the price that was paid for a particular product,
we need to combine product I D and purchase I t.
It will use an array formula.
We can create a combined column virtually simply by concoct innate into a raise.
We don't physically have to create an extra column before we discuss the formula that
creates unnamed ranges,
which we can use in the formula.
So in the product idea,
hurt society,
and we can't reference the entire column.
When you're working with the race,
you need to reference just the data cells not the anti column.
They control ship down to select all the way to the bottom and to create the names formulas
create from selection.
We want the name speaks up from the top row when we click.
OK,
then we do the same for you.
That price that Excel creates our three named Ranges to perform the look up we use.
A combination of index and Match index is the outer function.
On its first argument is the array.
That's to say,
the array that contains the item that you're looking for.
So,
of course,
in our case,
it's going to be the unit price column within the purchases.
Work feet,
then to calculate the road that will contain the answer.
We messed the match function as the row number arguments of the index function her match.
Our first argument is the look up value,
so we're placing our formula in road to column F of the sales worksheet contains the
product i D.
And column C contains the purchase i d.
So look at value is the can Katyn ation off these two values F 2% C two.
Then we specify the array within which were looking all that can caffeinated value.
And because we're creating in the rape will get.
What we do is to can Katyn ate the two columns,
so we use product i d.
Ampersand purchase I d.
That's to say the entire products i D.
Column can captain ated with the entire Purchase i D column and when contaminated to a race
,
Excel of automatically in Katyn eight Road one of product i D with Road one of Purchase I.
D and place that into a virtual results Ray.
And it's within this virtual array.
But Excel will be searching for the lookout value when it finds a match.
The row number is returned to the index function on the unit.
Price on that road will be the result of the function.
So let's write out formula we use in a nested function.
So let's expand the formula bar.
So the outer function people's index enter.
And for the array argument,
we simply specify the unit price column,
which we've got a name for.
Coma old enter and then for the road number weakness,
the match function.
But look up.
Value is a concatenation off product.
I d purchase i D.
So to Empress end.
See to coma.
I went to the look up array.
We can captain eight to a race,
and we do them in exactly the same order.
Product.
I d.
Empress end purchase I.
D.
Coleman.
And then the match type is zero.
Because we want an exact match closing parenthesis to end match all 10 sir,
and the closing parenthesis to end index on.
Finally,
because this is an array formula,
we press control shift enter rather than just enter.
Now there are 30,000 rows also in this work fleet and when we can't be down will be
reminded of one of the limitations off working with the rate formulas,
they are quite process an intensive,
so they can take a long time to calculate.
You do have lots of rose in the work treat,
so that's what 30,000 rose on average machine.
So obviously you're either you're working with a slow machine or you have lots of rose.
Then there's gonna be a trade off between the sophistication provided by using the rate
formulas on the performance hit that you can expect if you end up pushing your computer
system to its physical limits.